Add style and storage with this adjustable
shelf system called a Mandal headboard
and is great for the bedroom or any room where
you want to add a decorator touch. It s simple
to build and makes a great weekend project.
Let s get started. ll need eighteen, six-foot
long 1 by 2 inch hardwood boards. You ll also
need three more 1 by 2 s cut to 27 inches
long. Plus a drill, drill and driver bits
and wood screws. A complete list of plans,
including the tools and materials you ll need
can be found at Menards-dot-com. The shelves
are pre-finished Dakota shelf sections. The
number and position of the shelves you install
is up to you. The 27-inch long cross-pieces
are screwed into the edges of the six foot
long boards. Two of the cross-pieces are set
back three and one-eighth inches from the
ends and the third one is centered. This way,
the crosspieces will be properly spaced to
attach to walls with studs spaced 16 inches
on center. There is also a three-eighths inch
space from the top of the cross piece to the
first six-foot board. This helps assure proper
spacing if you decide to build more than one
unit and stack one above the other. Assemble
the unit by pre-drilling and attaching with
number eight inch and half long screws. Check
to make sure the unit is square. Use a section
of scrap wood and a clamp to ensure the next
board is properly spaced. When all three cross
pieces are attached the unit is ready to mount
to the wall. Determine where the wall studs
are and using three-inch long construction
screws, attach the unit to the wall. t helps
to use a long drill bit to get beetween the
boards. Attach one screw to the center cross
piece and check for level. Then attach to
the wall at each end. Now you can slide the
three-quarter inch shelves into the slots
between the boards. All that s left is to
fill the shelves with your favorite things
and enjoy! You can use aspen as we did, or
make it from oak, cherry, or even alternate
colors. You can also paint or stain the headboard
or leave it the natural color. To stay up-to-date
on all of Menards how-to projects, subscribe
to our channel, here!